balena os and device type support policies (#3117)
balena-io/docs: pages/reference/hardware/versioning.md

- Updated to newer versions as the community drives it, we do not guarantee the device type will keep up with OS versions.
- Community boards can be promoted to an official balena supported board if a customer is interested in sponsoring the device support. If you are interested in sponsoring a community board, email solutions@balena.io .

#### Device Type support policy
At balena, we’re here to make sure balenaOS runs smoothly on actively maintained hardware models. This policy lays out what we support, what you can expect, and how we handle devices when they reach the end of their lifecycle.

> **What We Offer for Official Supported Hardware Models**

Reviewer: Reads better @vipulgupta2048 I agree

> - balenaOS Image: A tested and ready-to-use version of balenaOS, available in our documentation.

Reviewer: `available in our documentation` is ambiguous, not sure what it is referring to. Does it mean available to download through the official channels? What has the documentation to do with balenaOS images?

> - Incident and Bug Support: We’ll help troubleshoot issues with incidents, bugs, or performance—whenever possible.

Reviewer: I think if anything that belongs on a support document, not on a hardware section.

- Regular Updates: You’ll get ongoing updates and patches to keep your devices secure, compatible, and running efficiently.

**What Happens When a Device is Discontinued?**
Sometimes, a device type reaches the end of the road. When this happens:
- The device type will stop appearing as an option for creating new fleets or adding new devices in the dashboard.
- Any devices already provisioned will keep working, but they won’t get any more OS updates.

> **When Does a Device Get Discontinued?**

Reviewer: I don't think we currently discontinue devices from BC - we commit to keeping them working as they were on the last release. That is made possible by API versioning and the introduction of new features on new versioned API. This is obviously a great for the product as a value add for customers, and up to date we have been able to afaik, but it may be something the backend guys object to.

We’ll discontinue a device type if:
- The Manufacturer Stops Support: If the hardware maker stops supporting or selling the device.

> - It’s No Longer Used: No new devices of this type have been added to balenaCloud in the past 6 months.

Reviewer: Has this always been the case? If I were a customer and I'm paying for my fleet of devices, even if the number is stable, I would strongly argue the device is actively used.
I personally don't see a reason to state something like this - if a device is really no longer being used we can discontinue it and no-one will realize.

> - Community Devices Are Inactive: For community-supported devices, if there’s no maintenance activity in the last 6 months.
> - Private Device Support Ends: For private device types, if the customer stops paying for its support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- In case the device is a community device and there's no maintenance activity from the community in the last 6 months.
- In case the device is a private device type and if the customer stops paying for the device type support.
```

> **What if You’re Using a Discontinued Device?**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**What happens to discontinued devices on balenaCloud?**
```

Suggesting to remove Capital Case out of the question

Here’s what you can expect:
- Support Wrap-Up: Updates, patches, and bug fixes will no longer be provided. We’ll still do our best to help with workarounds or recommend alternative devices.

> - Custom Support Options: Need continued support? We can explore custom options on a case-by-case basis, which may involve additional fees.

Reviewer: There is also forum based, community and best effort support. Should we not mention that?

Author: That would be a different entry in the FAQ regarding how to get support on a community device

* The version of the specific device type is constructed by appending to the `meta-balena` version a `rev` label. This will have the semantics of a board revision which adapts a specific `meta-balena` version for a targeted board. For example a `meta-balena` 1.2.3 can go through 3 board revisions at the end of which the final version will be 1.2.3+rev3 .
* When updating `meta-balena` version in a specific device type repo, the revision will reset to 1. Ex: 1.2.3+rev4 will be updated to 1.2.4+rev1 .
* Note that the final OS version is NOT based on the semver specification so parsing of such a version needs to be handled in a custom way. If you are interested in how to parse the version scheme, have a look at our balenaOS version parser [balena-semver](https://github.com/balena-io-modules/resin-semver).

> Look at our [balenaOS support policy](https://github.com/balena-io/docs/edit/master/pages/reference/OS/updates/self-service.md) for information about how we support and maintain the different versions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Look at our [balenaOS support policy](/reference/OS/updates/self-service.md) for information about how we support and maintain the different versions.
```
